Android Application Project:
Homework Reminder Application
Robert Morales

Changes:
09/05/2024 Outline Created

Index
•	Project Description
•	Problem being addressed
•	Platform
•	Front End/ Back End Support
•	Functionality
•	Design
 
Outline
1.	Project Description
a.	The homework reminder application is being designed to keep track of assignment due dates for college courses. The application will be tailored towards students that go to school full-time while also working full-time jobs. The goal of this application is to ensure that students can easily add their assignments to this application, to ensure that notifications can be set to ensure that the student does not miss the due date of a specific assignment. Some features of the application will include adding/removing assignments, allow for students to set reminders for their assignments that are due. 

2.	Problem being addressed:
a.	The main problem that this application will aim to solve is to avoid having students missing their due dates for assignments. This is a relevant problem as most students at Saint Leo work full-time jobs while trying to obtain their degree and at times, due dates can slip past the student. The application will address this problem by allowing students to avoid having to log into the Saint Leo LMS to view due dates by allowing them to add due dates into the application and for notifications to be set. Missing assignments can reduce the students grade dramatically; this is where the benefit of the homework reminder app comes in to remind students of their due dates so that assignments can be submitted in a timely manner.

3.	Platform:
a.	The application will be developed and supported for Android 5.0 and higher. Android studio will be used to develop the application and Kotlin will be the programming language that is used. 

4.	Front-end/ Back-end support:
a.	The homework reminder application will have both front-end and back-end support throughout the SDLC of the application. Android studio will used to test and debug the application before implementation and deployment of the application begins.

5.	Functionality:
a.	The application will allow for assignment due dates from multiple courses to be added. Each course will have its own category. The dashboard of the application will contain a tab for each course that is added as well as the upcoming due dates for each course. The application will have an option to add/remove a course, due date and assignment.

6.	Design: 
a.	The design of the application will be very minimalistic. There will be set main categories and then subcategories that follow.
i.	Course 1
1.	Assignment 1 Due Date
2.	Assignment 2 Due Date
3.	Test 1 Due Date
4.	Etc…
ii.	Course 2
1.	Assignment 1 Due Date
2.	Assignment 2 Due Date
3.	Test 1 Due Date
4.	Etc…
iii.	Add/Remove courses
iv.	Add/Remove assignments
v.	Settings
b.	Since Saint Leo only allows a student to take two courses at once online, there will be only two main categories for courses.
